hey Rick hello from Raleigh North
Carolina thank you so much for coming to
B2B marketing and more with Pam today we
have a special guest Tracy niehaus and
it's very interesting how I met Tracy
Tracy is actually the board member for
empro which is marketing Professionals
in mhi association and mhi stands for
Material Handling industry Association
so I had a chance to actually do the
webinar with their marketing
professionals and I had a great time and
got a chance to know Tracy so Tracy
welcome to my show thank you Pam I'm
excited to be here and Tracy is a senior
marketing director for vandalanda and
what an interesting name so Tracy can
you tell us what type of company is
vandalanda so vandalanda is a Dutch
company with about a 75-year history we
are a systems integrator in the material
handling space or the supply chain
working with mostly retail e-commerce
and fulfillment customers helping them
inside the four walls of their
Distribution Center so not only Hardware
but also software and aftermarket
support life cycle Services wow so you
be managing like supply chain for a lot
of companies so how was the supply chain
like in the past two and a half years
it's been actually really crazy I think
as everybody knows covid really
accelerated e-commerce it jumped about
five years within just the year 2020
alone and that's what most of our
customers do so it's been a busy couple
years helping our customers serve their
customers their end customers with that
being said you obviously work very
closely with your sales team and
sometimes they have unhappy customers or
you have to acquire strategic accounts
or strategic companies and I have heard
that you've been working on ABM which is
account based marketing type of effort
so can you share with us what is the
definition your definition of ABN and
why do you think that is important for
B2B companies for us account based
marketing is really a B2B marketing
strategy that's based at our high value
customer accounts so if you think about
it in account based marketing you're
really acting or treating that account
as a market of one so you're creating
highly personalized one-to-one
experiences and tailoring that for that
specific account really what I've seen
at vondalonda and in past experiences is
that for B2B marketers specifically the
sales cycle as we know is very tedious
and so therefore the whole marketing
cycle becomes very tedious and
account-based marketing really can
expedite that because you really
eliminate the need of narrowing down
from a very large pool into a very small
pool right right away you're starting
with a direct to one approach and that
speeds up the entire process and I think
also another benefit of account based
marketing specifically in B2B is that it
enables us to be able to generate better
targeted content because we're not
creating something that has to be
consumed by the masses I think what you
are trying to say is there's many
benefits number one is you complement
their sales strategy and number two you
target it for strategic accounts and
then you use that account strategy as
your marketing plan and also customized
content accordingly to support these
accounts I've talked to a lot of people
who say oh we don't do account based
marketing but really if they have key
strategic accounts they're already doing
forms of account based marketing
obviously different companies have a
different ABM approaches or I can call
that methodology and you can call that
marketing plan as well can you share
with us your ABN approach and the
marketing tactics that you use to reach
all the customers for us we have an
eight-step approach before we even start
that though and I think something that's
really important to note is that getting
executive buy-in for an account based
marketing program is really like the
number one thing you have to do and in
fact oftentimes it it makes sense to
pick a sort of executive sponsor if you
will somebody who can be your champion
this requires a lot of time especially
with the sales and marketing alignment
so it's great if everybody's on the same
page do you have any recommendation for
our listeners or people who watch the
video who should be the executive
sponsor should that be the marketing
side should I be on the sales side
should that be sales Ops do you have any
recommendation on that if you have
someone in a sales Ops position that's
ideal because a lot of this is lies
within their responsibilities anyway but
not everybody has sales Ops so if you
don't then my next recommendation would
be to go with a senior level executive
in sales because that's who the sales
reps are going to listen to I mean a CMO
or director of marketing could do it but
I think that in order to have the most
cohesive strategy it makes the most
sense to have someone in sales be your
executive sponsor you mentioned you have
eight steps
thank you first step is really the
selecting those Target accounts for me
that's where sales and marketing really
start to work together is in that very
first step right because sales is going
to help identify who those Target
accounts are to find those prospects and
provide insight into the sales cycle so
that's the very first thing you have to
do select the accounts the second thing
that we do is actually take the buyer
personas that we've already identified
and ideal customer profiles and and the
buying journey and apply that to that
account because even inside of one
account right there could be different
targets different buyer personas ideal
customer profiles that are going to be
part of our account based marketing
strategy so it's the next thing we do
you really make an effort to know that
specific account you gather enough
intelligence about who the decision
makers are and what is their buying
process try to understand that within
that specific account before you create
your tactic in terms of what you need to
do is that somehow correct okay exactly
and because I work for a company that
actually is a full cycle Provider from
the consultation all the way through the
aftermarket we may have different
targets inside of the same company
person who's making the decision about
the aftermarket support or the
maintenance programs Etc is not going to
be the person who has the buying
authority to give a thumbs up for a
multi-million dollar sale so we we have
different targets sometimes inside of
those same accounts which is why it's so
important because depending on what your
persona is your journey is going to be
very different and you're going to
interact with different pieces of
content right the president and the
company is probably not likely going to
be diving into a white paper the white
paper or the how to or certain features
for anybody that's listening closely is
going to realize we've got a lot of
setup going on here before we even get
to the meat of the program if you will
so our third step is creating
personalized content and that can be a
variety of different things that will
flow into the tactics so email social
campaigns website content things along
those lines you go away from creating
that content that's like a broad
sweeping lead gen content that I think
most B2B marketers are really accustomed
to creating and you start to create that
content that's very personal lies for
that one-to-one approach an important
part of creating this content is finding
a place where you can curate the content
so you don't have pieces of content all
over the place right there is one portal
because a lot of times sales wants to
take the extra steps to educate
themselves and you know you don't want
to be like oh okay I'll email you this
or here go here if you create a
SharePoint portal or even a team site or
something whatever your company supports
that way everyone has access to the
content and particularly as you're
sending content out and you're alerting
sales that you're doing that they're
like oh okay right I know I can go to
this portal and refresh myself on what
this piece of content is so very
important third step fourth step is
really the planning of the campaign or
the marketing plan I know you talk a lot
about that you know you might have
different level accounts like I was
mentioning before different tiers you're
trying to reach different people so
different touches right you might have
different ways you're trying to reach
them so you basically to create a mini
marketing or account plan for how you're
going to activate this account I like
the way you call it mini marketing plan
but specifically for that account the
next step I think is a big stumbling
block for people our fifth step is
integrating the appropriate Technologies
and when I say that what I mean is
marketing automation I do truly believe
if you don't have some type of marketing
Automation in place you cannot
successfully execute account based
marketing because sending out emails is
great but if you're not doing that
through a marketing automation program
and there's a gazillion of them out
there from like the gold Elite down to
something that is just helping you send
emails but it's keeping everything in
one place you're just not going to be
successful because you can't do the
tracking that you need to and that's so
important and I've had multiple
conversations with people you know
especially in our MP Pro group that
really want to get started on it but
don't have marketing Automation in place
and you know I just encourage them you
really really need to do that if you
want to do any digital nowaday you need
to make sure you have a back-end and
they actually created yeah right exactly
then you get to the fun stuff right you
get to start executing the campaign
whatever the tactic is that you're doing
whether it be some type of a advertising
on LinkedIn or Google pay-per-click
something like that website enhancements
if you're driving people to your website
and you have increased exposure there
you might want to work on you know that
part of the campaign personalized emails
you might be sending those out whatever
the touches are and the tactics that
you're going to use in this sixth step
you just let it rip it's time to start
and get it going another really
important step is regularly
communicating that so that's our seventh
step and by that I mean not just saying
like well campaign's going great you
know we've been doing XYZ we alert our
sales team with an email today we sent
this email out to this Target customer
and give them a copy copy of what we
send give them a link to what we send so
that they have 100 visibility into
what's going on in that campaign you
Empower sales because you're showing
them okay here's what we're serving up
to this customer here's the insights
we're seeing are they engaging with the
content are they not engaging with the
content are they interested you know and
so if you need to Pivot it's really
important to have that information and
make that decision together jointly but
really keep them in the loop on
everything that's going on and then our
final step is measure the results look
at your campaign obviously when you're
doing that initial structure you're
going to make a decision about what are
our metrics what are we going to be
tracking and make sure that you track
those metrics and then you can optimize
from those or as I mentioned before
pivot if you're not seeing success in
certain areas thank you so much I you're
welcome I love it that you laid them out
so clearly step by step into terms of
what a marketer needs to do if they try
to implement ABM so you mentioned about
success metrics do you have a common
success metrics that you use to
communicate with sales or is it
different like from campaign to campaign
can you share some insight with us most
of our campaigns are account based
marketing campaigns are very integrated
so we're not just using one tactic so
I'll walk you through a couple of
metrics that we have that we pretty much
use for all of them as B2B marketers
like these aren't going to be foreign to
anyone except for perhaps the last one
so the first one that we look at is AD
engagement so whether that be you know
LinkedIn ads or pay-per-click ads or
whatever type of advertising you're
doing as marketers we want to look at
the quality of those ads and the
quantity of those ads so from a
quantitative standpoint what's our
click-through rate how many are we
getting like are we tracking to where we
think we want to be but also in
important thing to look at in account
based marketing is the quality like what
are the comments people are leaving
particularly at a LinkedIn campaign what
are the logos or the titles of the
engagement and you know what are they
saying about it that's really important
and can really help you if you need to
track differently or pivot or what have
you
second thing is website traffic and this
sometimes gets lost in the mix for
account based marketing I think most
people in marketing know now you can
attach those UTM codes the tracking
codes onto any URL so you're able to
track how somebody's getting to your
website which campaigns are driving them
there and so then you're looking at all
right which campaign is driving people
to what area of my website and are they
sticking right are they engaging with
the content they are in more than one
place or are they just coming because
they clicked on something bouncing and
leaving so pay attention to that
marketing qualified leads that's what
we're in the business of right we want
to drive this marketing qualified leads
obviously every organization has a
different meaning for that based on the
type of lead that they need to drive to
sales but keeping track of that as well
the last one I think is one that often
gets lost but is really important in
account based marketing strategy is
how many meetings did sales book what
opportunities are in the pipeline what's
the win rate What's the total percentage
of the pipeline that marketing has
contributed to that's really important
and if you have a good marketing
automation tool it can track all of that
especially working in conjunction with
your CRM I think there's several kind of
more sales
Centric type of metrics
number of the demos number of sales
qualified leads and also number of the
meetings I like that one a lot and also
opportunities if you can quantify the
opportunities and then lastly if you can
also quantify articulate your
contribution as to win rate that's even
better and it helps us in our budget
justification if you can say okay we put
this much into the revenue of the
company the bottom line like that's that
will definitely help you be able to
justify your budget and ask for more
obviously account based marketing
complements the companies that who
actually go after you know strategic
accounts or any accounts that the from
sales perspective that's actually one to
tackle
and I also encounter working with the
different clients that the sales people
would like marketing people to do
account based marketing but they kind of
want to do a hands-off approach and say
you know what do your ABM and do as much
as you can I don't need to talk to you
what is your thought on that do you have
any recommendation for marketers who
actually have the requests from the
sales to do a ABM but the salespeople's
engagement has been lukewarm or they are
very busy they don't want to meet in the
middle so what is your thought on that
can ABN be successful if sales people
are not actively engaged or you have any
other thoughts to share with us how to
overcome that barriers of the lack of
Engagement from sales no I don't think
it can be successful if sales isn't
engaged in fact I think it's probably
one of the most important attributes to
the entire strategy because that's where
it starts as I mentioned when we have
our eight-step approach that first step
is really working with sales to allocate
those Target accounts and their buying
cycle Etc and this is where having the
executive sponsor can be very very
beneficial because if you hit those
stumbling block blocks because we're
asking sales to do something that's not
in probably a very a normal day plan
they're selling and this is an extra
step of cultivating further cultivating
that relationship so if that's when it
really helps to have somebody that's a
member of the sales organization as your
executive sponsor because there will be
pushback but I believe that you can't go
forward with an ABM strategy without it
and I also think that
on the flip side that's really one of
the most significant selling points of
an account based marketing strategy is
that you're empowering sales and
marketing to team up and work together
and be successful and really statistics
show that the organizations when their
sales and marketing teams are aligned
they can experience like a revenue
growth of like 32 percent which is
pretty amazing right yeah it's very high
yeah on the flip side for those
organizations that don't align they
start losing that percentage so you know
it's it's so important and again it
starts at the very beginning you don't
want to bring sales into account based
marketing after you've gone through a
couple of steps because then you're
making decisions about their accounts
that they should really be involved in
because different accounts are going to
need different resource allocation and
who's going to have what role and what
responsibility so that there's you know
more of a seamless transition for the
customer right so they're not like you
know it's not disjointed with them and
together I think you determine what the
success of the program will be we know
what we need to do to make it successful
on the marketing side but when we spoke
earlier about win rate Etc well that's
on the sales side right that has to come
from the sales side right right and so
you really need to have that walking
step and step and being aligned as one
of your very first steps and really for
the organizations that can successfully
do that they're fostering and growing
new relationships within those accounts
that they have and that can be really
financially beneficial for sales in the
long run so if you set all of that out
in advance of the program launching I
think that you get much more buy-in from
sales from the start amen yeah when my
clients when I do a workshops and then
people will say you know why we really
want to do this sales want to do it too
but they really don't want to put issue
of work can we Implement that and I
always tell them that you know don't
even start because it's going to fail if
they are not meeting you halfway but at
the same time I also make a suggestion
you know ABM is one way it's definitely
one of the I would say the best way to
actually engage with sales and build
sales and marketing alignment Tracy you
have done that and you have done a
fantastic job which is a testament to
that but there are other ways to engage
with sales you don't do ABM for example
if they only care about leads can you
qualify their leads a whole lot better
so they don't come to you and say you
know what this Lee is no good there are
many ways you can work with sales and if
you know social selling well you know
how to use LinkedIn you know how to
reach out to the prospects and your
sales people are not so much digitally
Savvy and then contribute you are
learning to them there are other ways to
engage with sales ABM is definitely one
from my perspective it's one of the best
way to build feel that alignment in a
very strategic manner but if you are
listening to this and you want to do it
but your sales are not on board or don't
want to put into an effort think about
some other ways that you can do there
are many many ways to do that count
based marketing strategies aside we meet
weekly every Friday morning with our
sales team and go through all of the
leads that all of the broad sweeping
marketing campaigns have generated to
determine what's the best action for
them are they ready for a call do they
still need to be nurtured we really
touch on those one by one and give sales
the opportunity also to kick back a lead
if they got it and it's not quite ready
you know I mean I always say in the end
if they're going to be ready to buy
they're they're not buying from us
they're buying from our competitor so we
might as well keep them in one of our
nurture streams until they are ready so
just that open dialogue with sales so
they don't just think you're throwing
leads over the fence like without doing
any sort of vetting of those leads
before you give them to them I think
that creates a really good strategic
partnership
hi Tracy you've been working with sales
for a long period of time and in the
multiple different companies especially
in the manufacturing segment
if you have one advice for aspiring B2B
marketers that's working with sales what
would that be before I had done a lot of
research before we executed our first
account based marketing campaign if you
will and so I knew a lot of what I've
talked about right I had but I hadn't
learned it in the real world so I think
that to your point it is that alignment
with sales and marketing I think that I
was careful to not make that mistake so
much and I really harped on it probably
in excess at times I think there were
other mistakes that we made in some of
the tactics and the execution because we
didn't know better and it's you know
we're used to doing these you know broad
sweeping campaigns as I mentioned
earlier to generate all these leads
right and so you know I think people
hear all the time you say account based
marketing flips the fun Channel but we
have to flip our thinking so you know
we're used to creating all this content
putting it out to the masses you know
getting all these leads back in and
account based marketing takes a bit of
marketing patience if you will because
you know the successes are measured a
little differently and I think on that
side the biggest mistake that we made
was not paying as much attention to the
personalization of the content
um you know personalized email I think
that's an easy one right but there's
other things I I touched on the website
earlier but really you know now there's
so many opportunities for us to touch
people along their Journey on the
website right with pop-ups engaging them
in chat you know things that were not
available many years ago but now our you
know commonplace in a lot of different
websites and by doing that by engaging
someone when they come to your site and
really tracking where they're bullying
and I mean all the algorithms and
everything that take that into account
you can serve up a better experience for
them you can do the same thing when
you're doing advertising digital
advertising right with retargeting
putting ads up for them that's directing
them in the manner that they want to go
and so I think when we first started
this I was like we send an email with
somebody's name in it wow like that out
of all the email they get every day we
have something right in their inbox
that's like dear Tracy blah blah blah
you know and and so I think we were
really slow to adopt the other types of
attribution and that personalization
that are necessary in account based
marketing so that would probably be my
biggest initial fail I did ask many
marketers especially who implemented ABM
what are some of the mistakes that they
made they wish somebody had told them
you are probably the first one
mentioning in terms of like very much
attention to details and also how you
personalize content and it's so hard to
personalize content and I repurposing
content all the time for example if you
and I have this conversation and I was
like oh my God you know Tracy a lot of
your Insight is great right so I create
a video for this I create a podcast for
this slightly different uh done by
different editor then if I really like I
can create a q a with Tracy niehaus
right and that's a blog post and I also
can have Gretchen my audio editor create
audiogram and I can have Scott my video
editor create just kind of snippet like
audio snippet that we can post it to on
the Twitter or the Facebook or any
social media channels and I can also do
a videogram or the video clips and on
top of it these are just repurposing and
I'm not talking about personalizing it
and then you are totally right now you
create this content and how do you
personalize it in a way that can be used
for a specific account I 100 agree with
you is kind of challenging right yes
thank you thank you thanks I would like
to ask you like one funny questions or
questions kind of like a personal
question what is one place you always
want to go and never visit it so I think
my answer is gonna make you laugh a
little bit but I just feel this need to
see the Northern Lights the Aurora
Borealis right please I mean I'm not
even laughing on that that's actually on
my bucket list too so I appreciate you
embracing my
what's that
my bucket list my bucket list as well
you know Tracy it's wonderful thank you
so much for coming to my show and share
your wisdom and the insights is you
provided a very solid approach in terms
of what marketers can do if they want to
implement ABM and the step by step and
also the engagement with sale is super
super critical and you talk about that
and also the success metrics in addition
to the marketing metrics that you do
related to campaigns you also need to
actually have a sales Centrics type of
metrics love your inside and um in terms
of like um personalization of a Content
really needs to pay attention to that I
love that thank you so much much for
coming to my show
yes absolutely I'm flattered that you
asked me so I'm very passionate about
lots of types of marketing but this one
in particular so happy to come today and
share my insights you rock thanks a lot
Tracy okay thanks Pam all right bye
bye-bye never miss an episode of B2B
marketing and more by following us here
on YouTube and leave a comment while
you're at it you can also find episodes
wherever you get your podcasts
[Music]